Importance of technology in education  The role of technology in the field of education is four-fold:  it  is  included  as  a  part  of  the  curriculum,  as  an instructional  delivery  system,  as  a  means  of  aiding instructions and also as a tool to enhance the entire learning process.  Thanks  to  technology;  education  has  gone  from passive and reactive to interactive and aggressive.  Education  is  essential  in  corporate  and  academic settings. In the former, education or training is used to help workers  do  things  differently than they  did before.  In the latter; education is geared towards creating curiosity in  the minds of students. In either case, the use of technology can help students understand and retain concepts better. Factors affecting technology in education I. Jung talks about the enormous challenge teachers are facing  in  our  society  due  to  the  rapid  expansion  of knowledge.  The  modern  technologies  are  demanding  that teachers  learn  how  to  use  these  technologies  in  their teaching.  Hence  these  new  technologies  increase  the teachers' training needs. Gressard and Loyd (1985) asserted that teacher's attitudes toward computers are a key factor in the  successful  implementation  of  ICT  in  education.  They pointed  out  that  teachers  do  not  always  have  positive attitudes  towards  computers  and  their  poor  attitudes  may lead to a failure of the computer- based projects. Also the most commonly cited barriers are:  lack of time;  lack of access;  lack of resources;  lack of expertise and  lack of support. Another barrier given by Butler and Sellbom (2002) and Chizmar  &  Williams  (2001)  is  reliability.  Reliability included hardware  failures, incompatible software  between home and school, poor or slow internet connectivity and out of date software which are available mostly at school while the students/educators are having more up-to-date software at home. Impact of ICT on education In educational context, ICT has the potential to increase access to education  and improve its  relevance and  quality. Tinio (2002) asserted that ICT has  a tremendous impact on education  in  terms  of  acquisition  and  absorption  of knowledge  to  both  teachers  and  students  through  the promotion of:  Active learning: ICT tools help for the calculation and analysis of  information  obtained for  examination and also  students'  performance  report  are  all  being computerized and made easily available for inquiry. In contrast to  memorization-based  or  rote learning,  ICT promotes learner engagement as learners choose what to  learn  at  their  own  pace  and  work  on  real  life situations' problems.  Collaborative  and  Cooperative  learning:  ICT encourages  interaction  and  cooperation  among students,  teachers  regardless  of  distance  which  is between them. It also provides students the chance to work with people from different cultures and working together  in  groups,  hence  help  students  to  enhance their  communicative  skills  as  well  as  their  global awareness.  Researchers  have  found that  typically  the use of ICT leads to more cooperation among learners within  and  beyond  school  and  there  exists  a  more interactive relationship between students and teachers (Grégoire et al., 1996). "Collaboration is a philosophy of interaction and personal lifestyle where individuals are responsible for their actions, including learning and respect the  abilities  and  contributions of their  peers." (Panitz, 1996).  Creative Learning: ICT promotes the manipulation of existing  information  and  to  create  one's  own knowledge to  produce a  tangible  product  or  a given instructional purpose.  Integrative  learning:  ICT  promotes  an  integrative approach to teaching and learning, by eliminating the synthetic separation between theory and practice unlike in the  traditional  classroom where  emphasis  encloses just a particular aspect.  Evaluative  learning:  Use  of  ICT  for  learning  is student-centered and provides useful feedback through various  interactive  features.  ICT  allow  students  to discover and learn through new ways of teaching and learning which are sustained by constructivist theories of learning rather  than students  do  memorization and rote learning. Positive impact 1. Enhanced Teaching and Learning:  Technological  developments  like  digital  cameras, projectors, mind  training  software,  computers,  Power point  presentations,  3D  visualization  tools;  all  these have become great sources for teachers to help students grasp a concept easily.  It  has  to  be  understood  that  visual  explanation  of concepts  makes  learning  fun  and  enjoyable  for students.  They’re  able  to  participate  more  in  the classroom and even teachers get a chance to make their classes more interactive and interesting. 2. Globalization:  When school in different parts of the state, students can “meet”  their  counterparts  through  video conferencing without leaving the classroom.  Some sites, such as www.glovico.com are used to help students  learn foreign  languages  online  by  pairing  a group of students with a teacher from another country. 3. No Geographical Limitations:  With the introduction of online degree programs there is hardly any  need of being  present physically in  the classroom.  Even  several  foreign  universities  have started online degree courses that student can join.  Distance  learning  and online  education have  become very important part of the education system now a day. Negative impact 1. Declining Writing Skills: 
 J Appl Adv Res 2018: 3(Suppl. 1)    https://www.phoenixpub.org/journals/index.php/jaar   S35  Due  to  the  excessive  usage  of  online  chatting  and shortcuts,  the  writing  skills  of  today’s  young generation have declined quite tremendously.  These  days,  children  are  relying  more  and  more  on digital  communication  that  they  have  totally  forgot about improving their writing skills.  They don’t  know the spelling of  different words, how to use grammar properly or how to do cursive writing. 2. Increasing Incidents of Cheating:  Technological developments like graphical calculators, high tech watches, mini cameras and similar equipment have become great sources to cheat in exams.  It is easier for students to write formulas and notes on graphing  calculators,  with  least  chances  of  being caught. 3. Lack of Focus:  SMS or text messaging has become a favorite pastime of many students. Students are seen playing with their cell phone, iPhones day and night or driving and very often even between lectures.  Being ever-connected to the online world has resulted in lack of focus and concentration in academics and to some  extent,  even  in  sports  and  extracurricular activities. Advantages  It makes students more excited to learn.  Help students with busy schedules, freedom to work at home on their own time.  Train students to learn new technology skills they can use later in the work place.  Decrease  paper  and  photocopying  costs,  promoting concept of “green revolution”. Disadvantages  Many experts and experienced people say that, due to such technology in education, students imagination is affected, their thinking ability is reduced.  Sometime  it’s  also  time-consuming  from  teacher’s point of view.  It is costly to install such technology.  There can be health issues too when used over limit.  Some  students  can’t  afford  modern  computer technologies. Conclusion  Technology has a  positive impact on  education and at the same time may also pose negative effects. Teachers and students should take advantage of this in the good light and eliminate  the  drawbacks  which  are  pulling  back many  of students as well as  schools from achieving excellence. It is thus  time  for  every  country  to  introduce  a  more technologically equipped education sector in the future.  References Beringer,  V.  (2009,  October  20)  For  kids,  pen’s  mightier than  keyboard.  futurity.org.  Retrieved  February  25th 2013  from http://www.futurity.org/society-culture/for-kids-pens-mightier-than-keyboard/#more-4909. Bounds, G. ( 2010, October 5) How handwriting trains  the brain – forming letters is key to learning, memory, idea. wsj.com.  Retrieved  February  25th  2013  from http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704631504575531932754922518.html Bransford, J., Brown, A., & Cocking, R. (2000). How people learn: Brain, mind, experience, and school. Washington, DC: National Academic Press. Brill,  J. M.,  & Galloway, C.  (2007).  Perils  and  promises: University  instructors’ integration  of  technology  in classroom-based  practices.  British  Journal  of Educational Technology. 38(1), 95-105.  Leising, J.  (2013 January 30)  The new script  for  teaching handwriting  is  no  script  at  all.  wsj.com  Retrieved February  25th  2013  from  http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323644904578272151551627948.html?KEYWORDS=handwriting Roschelle, J., Pea, R., Hoadley, C., Gordin, D., & Means, B. (2000). Future of children, 10(2), 76-101. Shah  (2011, July 16)  Why  does writing  make  us  smart  ? huffingpost.com.  Retrieved  February  25th  2013 from http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/07/16/why-does-writing-make-us-_n_900638.html Wenglinski, H.  (1998).  Does it  compute? The relationship between  educational  technology  and  student achievement in mathematics. Princeton, NJ: ETS. 